What are some of the parts of this lab that are not secure?  
The username and password (access control) 
Uses insecure ports 
Vulnerable open source dependencies 
What would your next steps be to make them more secure? 
Change the username and password to something more complex and not clear text 
Use secure ports 443 (HTTPS) or 22 (SSH) 
Be careful what open source containers are used. Use trusted sources. 
Implement a layered security approach 
Utilize multiple safeguards 
Enable authentication 
Network segmentation 
TLS/SSL encryption 
Use Docker Content Trust (DCT) to implement the signing of images. Use verification tools to guarantee the authenticity and integrity of images 
Limit container capability and runtime 
Scan images to seek out container vulnerabilities, configuration issues and updates 
Log and monitor containers events, network activity, unusual activity and review system logs 
What are some of the features of this lab that make it at least somewhat secure? 
It is virtualized containers segmented for security and linear transparency 
Images are from a secure source 
What did you learn from this lab? 
This lab was great but ran out of time and didn’t finish. I made it to the certificate validation portion of the lab. I learned Docker is virtualization software that allows for the segmentation and sharing of programs. If appropriated correctly container software can remove the “it worked on my machine” dilemma. This allows for a more streamlined approach to the information technology development pipeline for business and consumers. 
Businesses can layer their security approach with virtualized compartmentalization software such as Docker, PodMan or other container software.  


Objective 

Gain understanding of Docker and RAIDIUS to erect a functioning access point (AP).  

Install Docker on Windows 11. (Complete) 

 Researching container (Using Welcome Container in Windows Docker Desktop (http://localhost:8088/) 

 Researching “creating an image using a Dockerfile.” 

 Researching ‘Cloning GitHub repository” 

 Read “Setting up WAP with Docker and RAIDIUS.” (Instructions nonfunctional) 

Reviewed Docker tutorials 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rOTqprHv1YE 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pg19Z8LL06w&t=1589s 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gAkwW2tuIqE 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RqTEHSBrYFw 

Install VS Code 

Install VS Code Docker extensions (Docker, Docker: Explorer, Compose, Run, Syntax, Registry, Builder, Dive, Python,) 

Install VS Code YAML Extension   

Test Docker in command terminal (Functional) 

Start Docker Daemon 

Open host terminal  

docker 

docker run docker/whalesay cowsay “Hey Team” 

Works! I successfully installed Docker on my host system and touched my first container. Docker is cool virtualized computing. 

Whalesay “Hey Team”  

 

 

Pull Postgres 15.2 image from Docker 

 

 
